# DevOps-Core-Practical-Project

## **Contents**

 * [Introduction](#introduction)
   * [Objective](#objective)
   * [Proposal](#proposal)
*  [Architectue](#architecture)
   * [Jira board](#project-tracking)
   * [Risk assessment](#risk-assessment)
   * [Test Analysis](#test-analysis)
*  [Infrastructure](#infrastructure)
   * [Jenkins](#jenkins)
   * [Entity diagrams](#entity-diagram)
   * [Docker Swarm](#docker-swarm)
   * [The services](#services)
*  [Development](#development)
   * [Unit testing](#unit-testing)
   * [Frontend Desing](#front-end)
*  [Footer](#footer)

## **Introduction**

### Objective

The objective of this project is to create an application that is composed of at least 4 services: 
* service-1: should host the frontend
* service-2 & service-3 both generate a random object
* service-4 : receives the objects generated by 2 & 3 , perform a logic and returns an object to service-1, to be displayed on the home-page.

There are certain tools to be implemented in order to demonstrate what we leart in the past weeks:
* Project tracking with kanban or scrum board
* Version control: git
* CI server: jenkins
* Configuration management: Ansible
* Cloud server: GCP virtual machines
* Containerisation: Docker
* Orchestration tool: Docker Swarm
* Reverse proxy: NGINX

### **Propsal**

For my project I decided to create a simple magic 8 ball app, as the focus is not the application itself but the pipeline.
* Service-1: Front-end
* Service-2: Generate random number within 1 and 4
* Service-3: Generate a random number within 1 and 3
* Service-4: multiplies numbers and uses result as ID to fetch the answer

## **Infrastructure**

### The services

As i mentioned earlier, I created an app, where services 2 & 3 provide a random number within a range through a GET request. Service-1 sends those numbers to service-4 via a POST request. Service-4 multiplies the numbers and uses the result to fetch the prophecy of the magic 8 ball from one of the 2 tables found within a container running MySQL. The response json object contains a list of the last 5 prophecies, the current prediction as well as the result of the multiplication. The second table is responsible for storing the previous results. See the service diagram below.

[service_diagram]

